So, we talk about here is 'Archetype' As i maintoined before
basically u can create your own templates and use some
existing templates.

Let's say if you want to build a Spring project or any framework 
project where u have to done allot of configuration by your 
self but what if you think 

'hey u know in this world there are so many developers they might have 
work on some framework so, what if i get those configuration by
default of course u will not get every thing in the world but there
are some templates which available in maven'

we use them or we create our own so, this type of templates are basically
called 'arctypes' Now how we gonna use it.

So, basically u were create your own archtype let's say i were create my new
project 
let's say if you click here on left hand side 'Manu' then we click on
'New Project' u say there is an option of 'Maven Archetype' so, 
basically u can use some 'Archtype' u give him
  i. Name let's say 'DemoSpringProj' then Nothing change at some 
         options.
  ii. then we see 'Archtype' to select what kind of project u were building
          There are multiple projects like
          'maven-archetype-j2ee-simple' to create 'j2ee' project
          'maven-archtype-quickstart' if you want to just simple configuration
                                      Nothing much
          'maven-archtype-webapp' If you want to build the web application 
                                  where u need whole those structure 


But this are not the only options we have the thing is if you see the 
    iii.'catlog' option here by default it's 'Internal' it's something
                 which is in the plugin itself or the 'maven' installation
                 itself.
What if u want the archtype form the internet.
     iv. So, that's where u were go for the 'MAVEN Centeral' Now maven 
central  has multiple archtype So, it were loading all the archtype's
now it takes some time. 

     v. Archtype : In this we have so many options i am sure that there 
                   are some external catlog's as well which will give
                   U more options No one explore it.

I have make the project  in which most of the project are spring project
we get the default configuration of spring boot let's say u want to use 
any other archtype.
If i want to build something spring boot mvc so, we have
'spring-boot-jersey-blank-archetype' if you want to build the 'Rest application then
select this then this will give you a default struture ok if i click on create
let's see what u get here.

1st downloading the dependency if we check what kind of 'Dependencies' we have in
'DemoSpringProj's POM file'.
   i. first he got 'springboot starter' in which he got 'web MVC'.
   ii. he got a 'jersey' to run it.
   iii. And we got JDBC as well

And u don't required to add those Depencency by yourself here we also got 
'h2'  by 'hibernate' or since it will downolad the entire repository from 
internet u see it will taking some time and u see the project structure
ing at some time.

In 'src' point we got 'main' and since we already have some code availble here
in 'App','AppConfig' and 'HelloEndPoint' this all are the '.java' file.
      'AppConfig' will got some configuration.
      'HelloEndPoint' will help to connect with Database

In 'resorces' we got 3 files 
         1st is 'application.yml' if you cant to provide some configuration 
        2nd is 'log4jdbc' this have some configuration SO, u can use this
             template and build the project.
So, that's the beauty about using the 'archtype' also in the 'Eclipse' tool we
have same optionsof course in 'Eclipse' u can create a 'Maven' project
U can basically choose the 'archtype'on the first project itself and here we
go for different stuff.
